---
layout: post
title:  Drug Discovery Analysis
date: 2022-10-29 21:01:00
description: this is what included images could look like
# tags: formatting images
categories: Project-Analysis
---

The code for this project could be found <a href='https://github.com/bhaba-ranjan/drug-discovery-ANN'>here</a>. The following is an `analysis` of what I obsorved along the way.

<h2 class="mb-3">Neural Network</h2>

Neural networks worked promisingly in this task and outperformed accuracy of decision trees by `6%`.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/corss.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/loss.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Cross validation F1-score (Left) and Loss (Right)
</div>

<h5 class="mb-3">Regularization</h5>

The majority of effort went `into choosing the best size neural network` with respective `regularization` hypermeter. 
As soon as I started training **without regularization** the NN started **overfitting** to the data starting from _2nd iteration_. After some research it was apparent to use regularization parameters. I had 3 options: `L1, L2 regularization and Dropout` method. L1 and L2 penalizes weights while drop out omits certain neurons. `L1 could make a weight 0` while `L2 is extremely slow` in pushing weight `towards 0`. I did not use the feature subset. In other words, I wanted the `NN to decide which feature to omit/reduce` by using loss fucntion and backpropagation. I wanted the weights to be 0 for irrelevant features so, I used `L1 regularization`.

Choosing the right value for L1 regularization was another challenging task. To come up with a value that works, I tried different 𝝺 values. Went with
`bigger values first`. They did **not let the model fit** to the data. Then I tried smaller values which **led to overfitting**. Sort of like **binary search** I used intermediate values to come up with the value that worked.

<h5 class="mb-3">Loss Function</h5>

Initially, I used `Binary Cross Entropy` as the loss function but the issue was it was not able to produce good results. 
`As it does not take imbalance into account`. Also, gradient descent updates the weight for prediction towards the confident class. Because, the majority class dominates the loss function. `Binary Focal Cross Entropy` however, was a better choice because it down weights easy class prediction and forces the model to learn parameters towards the hard to classify class. Which, is what we need as the data is imbalanced.

<h2 class="mb-3">Decision Trees</h2>

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tree1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/tree2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

As the data is less, the decision tree started to **overfit on the training** data as soon as I started
training it. Which performed very badly on the testing data set. To avoid overfitting I tried 2 different methods. `Pre-pruning and Post-pruning`. Pre-pruning however, was not able to produce good results. As it is **hard to understand** optimal **depth** of the tree and **minimum records** to split at any level by just looking at the data.

I found **Post-pruning** promising as it prunes the tree and then determines the accuracy and further prunes it. I was able to get a boost of 5% in the F1-Score after using post pruning in miner2. I used cost-complexity-pruning method. In this method we assign a score to every tree. The score is defined as `Tree Score = Misclassification + ɑ * (Number of terminal nodes )`. 

The idea is to reduce the number of leaves and miss classification error while increasing the alpha. Finally the tree alpha where the tree has higher training and testing accuracy will be chosen.

